All right.
So we just discovered this apparent ripple effect, which influence the way the universe manifests this
quantity of momentum.
What we want to do is take that supposed candidate relativistic momentum and throw it into Terrence
and Phillips experiment to see if we can rectify the problem they ran into with taking a look at conservation
of momentum in the Y direction.
So in essence, what we're going to do is to take this equation again Delta P plus Delta T r the momentum
of the balls, and we're going to make sure that it equals zero, that these guys are equal magnitude,
but opposite in sight.
Now, if we take that candidate and throw it into both these qualities, what we find is that Delta
P must be defined as follows and Delta T must be defined as follows.
Again, the momentum term is going to be defined as the events factor in terms of the velocity times
a m times the velocity, and that's going to be the same for each component.
So most textbooks actually omit all the stuff here because a lot of math.
So be patient with me or I'm going to be reading up a lot on the board.
Hopefully, I don't make mistakes, but I want you guys to feel confident in this idea, and I want
it to be a journey for you so that you personally discover the psyche idea.
And I think you learn physics best by doing physics.
So let's do just that.
Let's do the physics.
All right.
So what we're going to do is we're going to focus first on Delta P P, and I'm going to remind you about
the velocities we calculated previously, just because we don't have that enough here.
You can backtrack in the video if you want to confirm that I'm using the correct value, but you can
trust me.
You can trust me.
So we're going to take this guy here first, and we're going to calculate this.
This is nothing more than Delta peop.
We're going to take gamma.
I'm going to drop the B, but that's going to be the speed.
We know the speed and Phillips reference frame when he throws the ball up, that's just you.
Not.
So you know what?
It's going to be used in here.
Not very interesting ideas pop out as a result of them to put down here for now.
We know that initially the ball with or the ball's mass, I want to say weigh in and mess that up.
The ball's mass is M and its velocity.
You know, this is no more than just, you know, so we get that guy.
It's actually, yeah, it's actually negative for state too, because it's going back down and we have
minus gamma and you not for initially it's going thrown up.
So this gives us nothing more than to am.
You're not over the square root of one minus, is you not again, it's the speed of the particle.
This is where we diverge from what we're using with Garrett before.
I don't get confusing calculations.
You always want to use the speed of the object, not the speed of the reference frame, because a lot
of people make mistakes doing that.
So if you need to do something like this to make you feel confident about the camera you're using.
OK, so that guy received this quantity squared.
OK, so we get this, and it sort of looks like what we had previously for Delta PC, which is a good
sign of a really good sign.
That's what we want to do is fix the error I made.
I already made a mistake.
You guys should have told me should've held up.
So we have to put in a negative sign here because I, you know, I forgot the negative sign, but that's
what we're going to use for Delta.
And I'm going to just write that down right here to make sure we have it.
And I can make some more space because the next guy's going to be a little ugly.
So little warning.
There is one minus you not oversee, not quantity square.
So we take this guy.
We're going to throw it away, and we're going to do is going to get dealt a pity for terrasses ball
and what is complicated about this.
Is the fact that the velocity that we're going to use in the Lawrence Factor, it has an X component
and a Y component.
OK.
So what we want to do first is get the magnitude and then we can throw it in to this Lorenz factor.
So what we needed to find out is, in essence, we want to find the Y T as measured in the frame and
Phillips reference frame.
So but a little bracket there for magnitude two brackets.
And what we need to do is, as we do in classical physics, this is no more than the X.
Now, I want the entire velocity, so this is v x t squared plus v y t squared.
And when we throw in the wash, these we had previously, we know that the X direction was no more than
the relative square.
But the why direction is a little more convoluted because of the Alaska edition formula that we had
to use.
So what we end up with is.
You not you're not squared times the quantity one minus the relative oversee.
Squared.
And in this case, it's the relative, because we're using the old Velocity Edition formula, remember
time, space and velocity.
They transform using a gamma f depending upon the relative velocity of the frames.
In momentum, we use the actual magnitude of the moving object, so we get something like this.
And you know, we look at this, it's not nice.
It's partly why textbooks omit this exercise, but we can rectify this and we can really make it work.
So what we're going to do?
Is.
Subtract those guys put in the y t two minus v y t at one.
And we're going to try and solve for this guy first.
It's going to be a little complicated, but we can do it.
We could do it.
We're good physicists.
We're good mathematicians.
Lifted.
So when we actually try and plug that guy in.
Use the lost, the formula, the threads factory.
This guy becomes.
We're going to get one.
Over this huge bracket is the one over one minus the this guy over C squared.
So it's it gets really convoluted and that's why I'm sort of hesitated.
So we have one minus one over c squared times.
This whole quantity squared.
OK.
So what we end up with is the relative.
Squared.
Plus, you not square times that.
All right.
Bear with me, there's a lot of convoluted math here.
It's not nice.
We're going to make it work.
We're going to make this work, though, OK, so we end up with that guy.
All under this radical.
And then we need to multiply by M times, b y t two, so what we end up with is over here, we got in
and.
And remember VE y at the end, it's coming up.
So it's a positive value.
And we determined from the blast the addition formula.
This is no more than you, not times the radical one, minus the relative over C.
Quantity squared.
OK, so we got this huge monstrosity.
What in the world are we going to do?
What are we going to do?
We can.
We can simplify this a bit by making note of the following.
So we end up with actually one over one minus PRL oversea squared minus you.
Not over, see?
Quantity squared.
I miss the square here.
Sorry about that.
And all this is multiplied by one minus V realm over C quantity squared times.
And you know, this guy comes along for the ride.
One minus very well over C.
He's just chilling up there.
Not very interesting.
And what we see is that the one minus v l c squared this quantity group that for you, this guy.
Minus this times the same thing, so we can factor out this the same thing and multiply by one to get
this guy minus you over C squared.
OK.
So what we end up with is and I apologize for the lack of board space.
We got one.
Over the square root of one minus the rail.
Oversee quantity square in brackets.
Times one minus, you do not oversee quantity squared.
In brackets and in this guy we can throw right up here.
Amie, you not.
And the square root of one minus v, veral.
Over, see what you square, and it's the point where we realize that this is a convoluted exercise
and we need more words this right?
So we try and make more board space here.
And what we find is that.
After we do so, we start getting smart and we find this guy here.
The same term as this guy here.
And we can cancel them out, in essence.
OK.
So this guy.
Cancels out with that guy.
At the same time.
And this becomes no more than an.
You not divided by the square root.
One is you not.
Over C squared.
Our as we take this guy, we look at Delta up, and it seems like it's in the same or.
So it looks like we're on the right track.
Let's keep making progress.
So what we know for the second term is this for the first term.
We know that it had an equal but opposite sign, an equal and opposite sign.
So this is equal to two.
That guy is equal to that and through, you know, we're just changing one sign.
We would expect to get the same thing with a change, not for the first part.
I'm not going to walk through that.
I should be self-explanatory.
M ui t one.
This guy?
Becomes negative and you cannot over root one minus you not oversee the quantity squared.
So let me take this.
We take that guy.
Minus this, what we end up with is we get a two.
I mean, you're not divided by the square root of one minus.
You not oversee quantity squared.
So this is the big moment, the big moment with the win, and Terrance and Phillip are super excited.
They're seeing this.
Their eyes are popping out.
They're smiling big.
Take this guy, we say.
This is no more than we can plot these guys in negative two.
And you're not.
Over the square root of one minus, you not oversee quantity squared plus two and you not over the square
root of one minus you're not over c squared, does that equals zero?
Yes, indeed.
We have found that, at least in Phillip's reference frame.
That our candidate solution for momentum.
This guy right here.
It's correct.
So.
We find that by looking at what we did previously and special relativity to give rise to these weird
relativistic effects.
We found that capping the velocity so that we don't reach the speed of light or beyond it leads to weird
effects of high velocities.
We threw this factor in, looked at the proper time and that yielded the correct result.
This is how momentum is modified.
Next, what we're going to do is we're going to take a look at this and the implications it has because
they're very odd.
They're very weird.
And in fact, a lot of physicists disagree in terms of what this implies.
And if you use the different ideas, we're going to resolve it and we're going to understand what ripple
effect we just introduced into the body of physics.
OK, we're going to use that a starting point and next investigate energy.
Stay tuned.